So in the last lecture, you saw how you can extend mongoose with your own functionality and that is
really powerful.
Now obviously, also check the official docs, there under schema
you can learn way more about that,
this is the technique we just used,
we added an instance method, you can add more about that and all the nice features you can add to your
own schemas
and models,
so definitely check that out for all the details that could be interesting to you.
Now here I want to work on the route that allows us to load the cart and this is a nice practice for
you again,
feel free to pause the video at this point and go ahead and try to implement this on your own before we
then do it together.
Were you successful?
Well let's go to the shop.js
file in the controllers folder and we're looking for the get cart method here.
Now there we have request user get cart and get cart is a method we defined in the past which does
not exist by default,
mongoose does not give us this method.
So we again have to revisit our user model and in there,
let's have a look at get cart, how we defined it in the past. In the past we simply reached out to our
cart items,
we got all the product IDs and then we had a look at the products collection to find all the products
in there, convert this to array and return the products,
so essentially get cart gave us an array of all the products in the cart.
Now with mongoose, this is a bit easier,
we already have our nested cart items array
and if we have a look at compass, we see the items are objects where we have the product ID
and now we simply need to populate the product ID with all the data we are interested in.
So in shop.js in get cart, I will not call get cart on my user
instead we can call populate on the user to fetch data even though we already fetch the user,
we can also call populate on that and tell mongoose to fetch data for, now which path is it?
Well for cart.items.productid, let me console log my products here to see if that works.
Now we also need to add that route again,
so in the shop.js file in the routes folder, let's add that get cart route again
and with that changed, let me load the cart page and I get an error
and the reason for that is populate does exist but actually it does not return a promise,
so calling then on it would not work,
we have to chain exec populate after that and then we'll get a promise,
so then we should be able to call then.
So now with that, let's log products, save that and reload that page, now I get no products in cart
but if I go back, well we see actually what we have here is the full user object which makes sense because
we're not just fetching products,
we still work with the full user,
so that is a tiny change
so let's actually use or log the user cart items here to see if that was still populated with all the
item data and I'll temporarily create an empty products array
so the rest of the code does not fail
and now let's save that and reload the cart page one more time.
If I now go back, you see indeed here what I log, user cart items now is an array of items where the product
ID is populated with the product data.
So now it works a bit different than before but it still gives us the data we need,
so here products now actually is user cart items and that is what I pass to my view but I will need
to look into my view now because the structure changed a bit compared to before. The cart.ejs
file is what we need to edit
and in there, we loop through all products which is fine but remember that our product data will then be
nested in a product ID field and you could also rename this to just product in your schema therefore
which makes a bit more sense I guess but I still have product ID here,
so the title is not available on the top level object which would be this object but on the nested product
ID object.
So here we have to say p.productid.title. The quantity is on the top level object
so this is fine, the product ID again can be found on the product ID nested or embedded document
though.
So with that, let's save that and let's now reload the cart page and indeed we see our cart item here
now.
So this is looking better, now we're able to populate our cart with data.